How to Turn Claude and Moonchild Into Your Personal Design Team (Full Guide)
AI won't replace designers with taste. But it will replace the gap between your idea and a finished design. Here's the exact two-tool setup.
Why most AI design goes wrong
You type "make me a clean SaaS dashboard" and get a screen. You ask for the settings page and it comes back a different blue, different spacing, a button that doesn't match. By the fifth screen the product looks like five different products.
This guide fixes that, end to end. I'll use a website as the example, but the same flow designs anything with an interface: dashboard, landing page, mobile app, internal tool. Every step comes with the exact prompt to run.
Every step comes with the exact prompt to run.
The setup: two tools, two jobs
Moonchild AI designs and holds the design system. You give it a brief, it builds a full design system first, then every screen from that system so they all match. Not a flat token file, real interactive screens.
Claude builds from it. Claude Code turns the design into working code, reading the actual design system instead of guessing from a picture. (Prefer Codex? Same thing on the build side, the design flow is identical.)
MCP connects them. Moonchild passes the design to Claude as structured data, tokens, components, layout, not a screenshot to approximate. That's what makes two tools worth it.
That's the stack. The rest is how to drive it.
Step 1: Start with the brief, not the tool
Before you open Moonchild AI, answer five questions on paper. This is the part only you can do, and it decides whether everything downstream is sharp or generic. A one-line prompt is a one-line brief, you'd never accept "make me a website" from a designer you're paying, so don't hand it to an AI either.
The model can only return what's in your brief. Feed it vagueness and it fills the gaps with the average of everything it's seen, that bland AI-looking output everyone complains about. Feed it a specific point of view and it has something real to build toward. Every sentence you write here removes options, and that narrowing is the whole job.
Here are the five questions. Answer them before you touch anything.
1. Who is it for? Not "users." Not "small businesses." One specific person with one specific problem at one specific moment. "A freelance photographer who needs to send a portfolio link to a client during a phone call and look more established than they are." That's a person. "Creatives" is not.
2. What's the one job it does? The single thing it has to do well. Not five things. One. A portfolio site's one job is making a stranger trust you in ten seconds. Name that job in a sentence and everything else becomes secondary to it.
3. What does it feel like? Two or three adjectives, specific ones. "Calm, confident, editorial." "Sharp, fast, technical." Not "modern" or "clean," those are defaults that mean nothing. The feeling is a constraint that will drive color, type, and spacing later.
4. What does it look like, that you'd be proud of? Two or three references you admire and want to be compared to. Real sites, real products. These give the model a direction to pull from that isn't generic.
5. What does it refuse to look like? Two or three things you'd be insulted to be confused with. This one matters as much as the last. Negative space defines a design as much as positive space, and telling the model what to avoid is often more useful than telling it what to chase.
Write these out as a short brief you can paste in later. Mine for the fitness dashboard looked like this:
Who: someone three weeks into a training plan who checks the app each morning to see if the work is paying off, not a hardcore athlete, a consistent regular person who wants proof of progress.
One job: make progress legible in three seconds. Open it, know instantly if you're on track.
Feeling: focused, precise, quietly motivating. Like a good analytics tool, not a hype machine.
Looks like: Linear's restraint, Oura's calm data presentation, charts that inform instead of decorate.
Refuses to look like: a gamified app drowning in badges and streaks, a raw spreadsheet, a neon fitness-tech cockpit.
That took fifteen minutes, most of it crossing things out. By the end you have a brief specific enough that the design system in the next step is built on a point of view instead of a guess. This is the foundation. Get it right and the rest is mechanical. Get it wrong and no amount of prompting saves the output.
Step 2: Build the design system first, in Moonchild
This is the step everyone skips, and it's the one that keeps your fifth screen matching your first. Before you design a single screen, you build the system every screen will pull from.
How to do it:
Create a new project and click Add DS at the bottom left.
Choose New Design System. You get a prompt screen with no length limit.
Paste a structured prompt (below). Leave quality on Gold, the default.
Wait for the preview, then publish it as a version.
Use the same six-part structure. Here's the exact prompt I used, built on the Step 1 brief:
Context: A design system for a modern fitness tracking dashboard, web app for desktop.
Description: The user opens this every morning to see if their training is paying off. Progress has to be legible in three seconds. Prioritize data clarity and calm over decoration. This is an analytics tool, not a hype machine.
Platform: Web app, desktop resolution (1440x1024), responsive layout.
Visual style: Focused, precise, quietly motivating. Restrained like Linear, calm data presentation like Oura. Charts that inform, not decorate.
Negative prompt: No gamification, no badges or confetti, no neon or toxic-bright colors, no gradients, no spreadsheet density, no sci-fi cockpit aesthetic.
Components needed: stat cards, line and bar charts, progress rings, a data table for activity history, navigation sidebar, filter dropdown, date range selector.
What you get back: not a screen, a full system. Moonchild builds it in stages and lays each part out as its own gallery page. From this prompt it produced stat cards, progress rings, charts, a data table, controls, navigation, and a complete dashboard composition using all of them.
0:00 / 0:31
What to actually check in the output (this is where you confirm it's a real system, not a mockup):
Open the stat cards page. Mine came in three sizes with trend pills built in: green for a gain, red for a drop, grey for no change. Color carries meaning, not decoration.
Open the progress rings. They have status variants, the ring shifts blue to green to orange to red by value.
Open the charts page. Check the philosophy Moonchild writes into the system itself. Mine read: data is the design, no 3D, grid lines minimal, colors from a semantic palette so they adapt if the theme changes. That's your negative prompt becoming a permanent rule.
Open the dashboard composition page. This is the proof. Every component sits together in one real screen, visibly from the same family.
Why this beats a design.md file: a markdown file lists colors and hopes the model remembers them. This defines color as roles (success, surface, trend-down) and bakes them into real components, so every screen you generate next is assembled from the same parts instead of reinvented.
Practical tips:
Be specific in the negative prompt. "No gamification, no neon, no 3D" did more to shape the result than any positive instruction.
Don't skip the description. Stating the user's actual moment ("opens it every morning to check progress") is what made the output calm and data-first instead of generic.
You can edit after generating and republish as v2, so don't over-think the first pass.
Step 3: Generate your screens against the system
Now you design real screens, and every one comes out already built from the system you made in Step 2: your components, your colors, your rules. Here's the exact sequence.
1. Publish your design system. In the chat (left panel), click the Publish design system button at the bottom of Moonchild's last message. Until you publish, the system stays a draft and projects can't use it.
2. Start a new project. Hover over the Moonchild logo (top-left) to open the menu, then click New Project → New Blank Project. This drops you on the "What would you like to design today?" screen.
3. Attach your design system. In the prompt box, click Add DS (next to the + button). Pick your published system from the list. Once attached, every screen you generate in this project uses it.
4. Type your screen prompt. In the "Describe your design idea..." box, type your screen description. End it with "don't introduce new colors", the one line that stops the AI from drifting off your palette:
Design the main dashboard screen for the fitness app. Top: a greeting header with the user's name and today's date. Below: a row of stat cards (steps, calories, active time) using the trend pills from the system. Then a two-column row: a weekly distance line chart on the left, a daily-goals progress ring on the right. Below that: a recent activity data table. Use the attached design system for all components, colors, and typography. Don't introduce new colors.
5. Generate the rest of the screens in one prompt. Don't build them one at a time. In the same chat, type a single prompt describing the whole set so they generate together and stay consistent:
Generate the remaining screens for this fitness app, all using the attached design system and matching this dashboard's visual language: 1) a Workouts history screen with the full activity data table and filter controls, 2) a Progress screen with progress rings and trend charts, 3) a single workout detail screen with charts and stats. Keep the sidebar navigation identical across all screens.
6. Send and look at the canvas. Moonchild builds all the screens at once and lays them out on the canvas. Same sidebar, same tokens, same card language, with the correct nav item highlighted on each screen (Workouts active on the workouts screen, and so on). You now have a full product that looks like one team built it.
7. Review each screen before moving on. Click any screen and press P (or hit Preview) to see it full-size and clean, without the canvas clutter. Walk through all your screens this way and check the obvious things: is the data legible, do the components match across screens, does the layout hold. This is your last cheap checkpoint. Fixing a layout problem here is a prompt. Fixing it after Claude builds the code is a rebuild. Press P again to exit.
Step 4: Hand the design to Claude through MCP
This is the bridge. You connect Moonchild to Claude Code once, and from then on Claude can read your design directly, as structure, not as a screenshot it has to guess from. Do it in order.
In Moonchild:
1. Open the sidebar menu → Profile Settings → Integrations.
2. Find Moonchild MCP in the list → click Connect.
3. In the popup: under Tool, pick Claude Code. (The dropdown also has Cursor and Codex if you use those instead, the rest of this works the same.)
4. In Token Name, type anything (e.g. "Claude Code") → click Generate token.
5. Click Copy to copy the command it gives you. Click Done.
The token shows once. If you lose it, revoke it and generate a new one. Don't paste it anywhere public.
In PowerShell (Windows) or your terminal:
1. Open PowerShell (press Win, type "PowerShell", open it).
2. Check Claude Code is installed: 
powershell
claude --version
A version number means you're good.
3. Paste the command from Moonchild, but add -s user to the end before pressing Enter. This one flag makes the connection work in every folder, without it, Claude only sees Moonchild in the exact folder you ran the command in, which trips most people up:
claude mcp add --transport http moonchild https://forge.moonchild.ai/mcp --header "Authorization: Bearer msk_xxxxx" -s user
You'll see "Added HTTP MCP server moonchild ... Connected".
4. Confirm it connected:
powershell
claude mcp list
Moonchild should show √ Connected.
5. Make a project folder and start Claude: Create an empty folder for Claude to build into, then open Claude inside it (this makes a folder called fitness-app on your desktop, name it whatever your project is):
powershell
cd ~\Desktop
mkdir fitness-app
cd fitness-app
claude
6. Confirm Claude can see the design. Inside Claude, type /mcp, you should see moonchild · connected with a list of tools. Then run:
List the screens in my Moonchild project and describe the design system you can read from it, the colors, components, and typography.
If Claude names your actual screens (dashboard, workouts, progress, workout detail) and describes your colors and components, the bridge works. Claude is reading your real design tokens, not eyeballing a picture. That's the whole point: a screenshot makes Claude approximate, MCP lets it build from the exact source the design came from.
Practical tips:
The -s user flag is the one to remember. It's the difference between "works everywhere" and "Claude can't find my project."
One setup, reusable. Every future project on this Claude Code install can read Moonchild, no need to redo this.
If Claude ever says it can't see the project, type /mcp inside Claude to check moonchild still shows connected. If it doesn't, regenerate the token in Moonchild and re-run the add command (with -s user).
Step 5: Build, review, and refine with Claude
Claude has read your design through MCP. Now it writes the actual code, and a second Claude session checks the first one's work. Here's the sequence.
1. Give Claude the build prompt. In the same session where Claude just read your design, tell it to build, and force it to use the real tokens it read, not approximations:
Build this fitness dashboard as a working React app. Pull the exact color tokens, typography, and components from my Moonchild design system through MCP, use the real values you just read (#0c8bea blue, the slate ramp, green/amber/red status colors, Inter and JetBrains Mono), not approximations. Build it feature by feature: layout and sidebar first, then the stat cards, then the charts, then the activity table. Don't introduce any color or style that isn't in the design system.
2. Let Claude build, then run it. Claude writes the files and installs what it needs. When it finishes the first screen, start the app with the command it gives you (usually npm run dev) and open the local link in your browser. You're now looking at your Moonchild design as real, running code.
running app in browser
3. Build out the full product. Once the main screen looks right, have Claude build every screen and wire up real navigation, all still pulling from the system:
Now build out the entire app into a fully working, navigable product. Every screen real, every button functional, all from the Moonchild design system, no new colors or styles. Build all the sidebar screens (Dashboard, Workouts, Progress, Nutrition, Sleep, Body, Notifications, Settings), pulling matching Moonchild screens where they exist and designing the rest in the same visual language. Wire up navigation: sidebar items load and highlight, workout rows open the detail screen, the profile opens a profile page, Settings has working toggles, chart period switchers and filters actually work. Use realistic fitness data, not placeholders. Build feature by feature and report each step.
0:01 / 1:14
4. Review with a second Claude session. This is the trick that catches what the builder missed. The session that wrote the code is a bad judge of it. Open a second PowerShell window, go to the same folder, run claude again, and make it the reviewer:
Review the fitness dashboard code in this project against the Moonchild design system available through MCP. Check every color, spacing value, font weight, and component against the real design tokens. List anything that drifted, hardcoded colors, wrong weights, components that don't match the system. Don't fix anything, just report what's off.
A fresh session with no stake in the code finds drift the builder is blind to.
5. Fix what the reviewer flagged. Take the report back to the first session and have it fix the specific items, one at a time, not in one giant pass:
The review found these issues: [paste]. Fix them one by one, and after each, confirm it now matches the design system.
That's the loop. Build → review → fix → done.
Practical tips:
Always say "use the real values from MCP, not approximations". Left vague, Claude will eyeball colors close-but-wrong.
Build feature by feature, not all at once. Smaller steps mean fewer errors and easier review.
The two-session trick works because the builder can't see its own mistakes. The reviewer can. Use it on anything that has to match a spec.
Realistic data, not lorem ipsum. Real workout names and numbers expose layout problems placeholders hide.
What's left, and what stays yours
That's the whole thing. A brief, a design system, screens built against it, Claude turning it all into real code with a second Claude checking the work.
And it's genuinely this easy. This whole site took me 30 minutes from a completely blank start, and 20 of those I just sat there waiting while the AI did the work for me. Click, wait, click, wait. That's the job now.
What you end up with is a real product that's basically ready to ship. The design is done, the screens are coded, everything's navigable and on-brand. What's left is the plumbing, hooking up a database, adding accounts and auth, wiring real user data in place of the sample data. The hard part, turning an idea into a finished, consistent front end, is already behind you.
But notice what the tools never did. They didn't decide who this was for, or that progress had to be legible in three seconds, or that it should feel calm instead of loud. You did. The tools collapsed every cost except one: taste. 
AI hands you a thousand reasonable options. Knowing which one is right is still the whole job, and that part stays yours.
If this was useful, head to my profile and follow. I write about AI, Claude, and systems that actually run.